{'neg': 0.045, 'neu': 0.943, 'pos': 0.012, 'compound': -0.8667}
The general director of Yandex Elena Bunin left his post. She stated that "can not live in a country that fights with his neighbors"
The Director General of the Russian Yandex, Elena Bunin, leaves the referee, reports TASS with reference to the company's press service.
Acting General Director of Yandex appointed Artem Savinovsky, head of the company's media services. "We will tell about further changes later," added to Yandex.
Earlier, Yandex said that Elena Bunin will leave the post of Director General on March 15, losing the position to one of the top managers of the company Tigran Hudverdian. But when the European Union introduced sanctions against Hudavardian on the same day, he left the post of general director. After that, "Yandex" reported that Bunin would perform the responsibilities of the general director until April 15.
The Bell writes that Elena Bunin opposed the Russian invasion of Ukraine. She reported this in a letter to colleagues published in the Yandex domestic forum, which was at the disposal of the publication. Bunina told that the war found her outside of Russia - she was on vacation in Cyprus. On March 1, Bunina flew to Israel, where the entire month worked in the office of the company in Tel Aviv.
"I will not return [to Russia]: I can not live in a country that is fighting with my neighbors," she wrote. Bunin added that it would formally remain a company general director until April 15. "I will transfer the remaining roles gradually. So far, I will not completely give, I will not drop, "the letter says.
Helen Bunin from January 2011 worked as HR-director of Yandex, and since December 2017 combined this work with the post of Director General of Yandex.



{'neg': 0.051, 'neu': 0.903, 'pos': 0.046, 'compound': -0.2617}
Clients "Yandex.edi" filed a collective claim for the service due to the leakage of personal data
A collective suit for the service "Yandex.eda" is served in the Zamoskvoretsky Court of Moscow due to the leakage of personal data of users, reported "Vedomosti".
At the moment, 33 service clients participate in the lawsuit. Another 300 people filed applications for joining the lawsuit through the form on the website of the Destra Legal legal service, which represents the interests of the applicants.
The plaintiffs are accused Yandex.Il in violating the law "On Personal Data" and require moral compensation in the amount of 100 thousand rubles per each. The claim states that after leakage of personal data on the Internet, customers began to receive calls from unfamiliar numbers with advertising offers from various services.
"The size of such compensation was considered appropriate participants of the collective claim, since the common" Yandex.edo "personal data essentially violates the inviolability of privacy, housing. Including applicants fear for their safety. After all, there were not only their phone numbers and mail, but also actual addresses, codes from intercoms, etc., "said Destra Legal representative Boris Feldman, said the newspaper.
Projects "Network Freedoms" and "RoskomSvoboda" also announced the preparation of a collective claim for Yandex.edo.



{'neg': 0.031, 'neu': 0.915, 'pos': 0.054, 'compound': 0.5095}
In Yandex.iede, "apologized for the massive leakage of customer data. The service has reduced the number of employees with access to user personal information.
The head of the delivery service of the finished meal and Yandex.eda products. Roman Marezov apologized for the massive leakage of personal data of customers and told what the company makes not to give up to the network. His appeal was published in Yandex blog.
The service closed the system through which a leak occurred, began to transfer data to "more secure repository", and also reduced the number of employees with access to personal information users, Maresov said.
According to him, Yandex seeks blocking sites and canals that publish leaking information, including contacting registrars and cloud storage facilities - to delete files with information about orders. "By March 23, the majority of providers have already blocked the resources that have extended ceased information - they are not available on the territory of the Russian Federation," the head of service said.

Maresov also said that the investigation of the leakage continues both within the company and with the participation of regulators and law enforcement agencies. He promised that Soon "Yandex.Il" will be connected to the data management tool, with which users can track which data about them have accumulated various services and delete them forever.



{'neg': 0.032, 'neu': 0.905, 'pos': 0.063, 'compound': 0.2905}
At Yandex.Il "made a protocol for leakage of data. The company faces 100 thousand rubles a fine - for 58 thousand addresses of customers with names and phones in the network
 Roskomnadzor compiled an administrative protocol on Yandex.eda LLC for leakage of personal data.
 The protocol was drawn up on the first part of Article 13.11 of the Administrative Code of the Russian Federation (violation of the legislation of the Russian Federation in the field of personal data, which does not contain a criminal acting act), providing from 60 to 100 thousand rubles a fine.



{'neg': 0.054, 'neu': 0.913, 'pos': 0.033, 'compound': -0.8655}
The network published a map with the current data from Yandex.edi users
Network users discovered a website with a map where more than 58 thousand addresses used by the clients of the Yandex.eda delivery service are indicated.
The site is based on the data database "Yandex.edi", the leakage of which the Yandex company itself reported on March 1. The card presented on the site contains 58370 addresses, including more than 18 thousand - in Moscow and Moscow region.
On the main page of the site there is such a message (author's spelling and punctuation preserved): "After the start of the military special operation of Russia in Ukraine, as a result of mass cyber attacks on the web resources of the Russian Federation, many personal data were illegally laid out on the network. We publish a database with personal information of Russians, which can take advantage of intimidation and deception. You can check on the phone or surnames, what information has criminals to understand the risks. Forewarned is forearmed!"
On the main page of the site, you can find user data that fell into the database, by last name or phone number. The "Medusa" correspondent found in the address presented address, phone numbers and the names of several of their colleagues and acquaintances.
The site authors indicated the phone number for those who want their name to be removed from the published base. The phone number is changing each time the page is updated. As Forbes notes, none of the published numbers has been available.
The representative of Yandex.edi reported Forbes that "experts check the data on the site." At the time of publication of this note, the site with a map of populated addresses stopped opening from users from Russia.



{'neg': 0.065, 'neu': 0.917, 'pos': 0.019, 'compound': -0.7096}
Latvia announced a taxi service lock Yandex GO
Motor transport Directorate of Latvia decided to cancel the license of the company Yandex Taxi B.V. and block the Yandex GO application, starting on March 23. From this time, it is reported on the website of the Directorate, Yandex will no longer be able to provide taxi services in Latvia.
The Directorate went on such a step by establishing that the Yandex GO application exchanges data with servers located in Russia. The agency believes that in this way, the data of Latvia and foreigners who enjoy the application may be at the disposal of Russia.
Transport companies and individual drivers who will continue to use the Yandex GO app, will be fined, stated in the Directorate.
Motor transport directuation blocks Yandex Go to Latvia for the second time. In March 2020, the site and the taxi service application remained blocked due to the fact that the company did not register in the motor transportation directuation.



{'neg': 0.02, 'neu': 0.953, 'pos': 0.027, 'compound': 0.2023}
Two members of the Board of Directors went from Yandex, from VK - five
The Board of Directors of Yandex was left two representatives - the founder of Wellville Esther Dyson and Professor of Finance of the Higher School of Business Stanford University Ilya Strebulaev. Interfax reports this with reference to the company's message.
Dyson held the post of independent non-executive director since 2006, Strebuliev - since 2018. While these posts remain free, clarified in Yandex.
Earlier it became known that five representatives came out of the Board of Directors of VK: Jacob Van der Merve, Charles Sirla, Mark Relating Sore, Jan Bun and San Hong Kim. In addition, Matthew Hammond left the post of managing director and financial director.



{'neg': 0.093, 'neu': 0.874, 'pos': 0.033, 'compound': -0.8806}
Yandex and Ozon warned about the risk of default on bonds due to the fact that the NASDAQ Exchange suspended bidding them with securities
The Russian companies "Yandex" and Ozon warned that they may not fulfill their debt obligations on bonds due to the fact that the US NASDAQ Exchange on February 28 suspended bidding their securities.
Yandex released his message on March 3. The company warned that in the event of a suspension of exchange trading, its bonds for more than five days the holders of these bonds may require redeem them for the amount equal to the nominal and accrued interest.
"The current bulk amount is $ 1.25 billion. & lt; ... & gt; The Yandex group currently does not have sufficient resources for full redemption, "the Yandex says.
In a conversation with Forbes, the representative of Yandex explained that "while there is no talk about default," he added that according to the rules of the exchange, the company should disclose "all theoretically possible risks, even if they never happen."
On March 4, the Ozon online store also warned about the risk of technical default. He has bonds worth 750 million dollars, and holders may require their repurchase in case of stopping trades for seven or more days. The company has enough funds, but the ransom must exercise Cypriot Ozon Holdings, and transfer money from Russia to its account can be problematic, the company said.



{'neg': 0.064, 'neu': 0.909, 'pos': 0.028, 'compound': -0.7845}
Paramount Following Disney, Sony and Warner canceled premieres in Russia. In 2021, 70% of filmborns in the Russian Federation had 70% of these studios

American film studio Paramount announced the situation of showing his films in Russian cinemas due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Hollywood Reporter writes about this with reference to the studio statement.
Including the Russian premieres of Sonic 2 films and the "Lost City" canceled.
"We support all who suffered from the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Russia and our international markets, and will continue to follow the development of the situation," said Paramount.
Previously, the Disney and Sony film studios also stated on the suspension of his new films in Russia because of the invasion. Studio Warner Bros. Canceled the release of the film "Batman" in the Russian cinemas.
Ksenia Boletskaya - Director of interaction with the industry in the Vse. Yandex mediaservice division - wrote in his telegram channel that in 2021 on Paramount, Disney, Sony and Warner Bros studios. 73% of all movieborhoods in Russia. "So you appreciate the scale of losses for cinemas," she explained.



{'neg': 0.062, 'neu': 0.882, 'pos': 0.057, 'compound': 0.3617}
War
Twentieth day. Online "Medusa"
UN: Since the beginning of the war, 691 peaceful resident died, 1143 were injured. These are only confirmed cases; It is believed that real numbers are significantly higher.
Tigran Hudavrdyan left the leadership posts in the Maternal company "Yandex" - the Netherlands Yandex N.V. - After entering into sanctions lists of the EU.
Farmgigant Eli Lilly announced the restriction of drug supplies to Russia.
The premieres of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia arrived in Kyiv. They spent a meeting with Zelensky.
The EU introduced the fourth package of sanctions against Russia: prohibited exports in the Russian Federation of luxury goods, elite clothing, alcohol, cars. For personal sanctions, Roman Abramovich, Konstantin Ernst, Suleiman Kerimov.
The United States will allocate $ 1.6 billion to Ukraine.
On this we suspend our online. We again follow the events we will continue with eight in the morning in Moscow.




The manager will also go out of the Board of Directors of the Maternal Yandex company registered in the Netherlands and will leave posts in the Dutch subsidiary structures of the Company, the Yandex says.
The company of the managing director and the Director General of the Russian LLC Yandex, and the Director General of the Russian LLC "Yandex", the Company does not say.
On the eve of Hudverdyan, the EU and Great Britain was informed.

This will be the first payment on the external debt of the Russian Federation after freezing its gold and foreign exchange reserves.
According to RIA Novosti, if it does not work out the amount of frozen reserves or transfer it to investors' accounts in rubles - this can lead to a default.





Mariupol. Hospital №3, which fell under the shelling on March 9. Newborn, which left parents.


"Your visit to Kyiv to this serious time for Ukraine is a powerful certificate of support. We really appreciate it, "the official telegram channel of the Ukrainian president says.


In the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions controlled by Ukraine, 134 people died, in the territory of the self-proclaimed DPR and LNR - 39 people. The remaining 518 people died in other regions of Ukraine.
Among the dead - 48 children.
Another 1143 people, including 62 children, were injured.
The Office of the UN Human Rights Commissioner notes that real figures are significantly higher, since many messages require additional confirmation, and receiving information from some places where the fighting continues, is delayed.



236 people were injured, including 13 children, they declare the authorities of the self-proclaimed republic.

We updated our fighting card.


The concert of Oxymiron in Istanbul ended.
The broadcast was interrupted when the event organizers were able to assemble about 20 thousand dollars to help Ukrainian refugees.

The European Central Bank gave an indication of some credit institutions to more carefully check the transactions of all Russian and Belarusian customers to make sure that translations are not used to bypass sanctions.
These reinforced checks, writes Reuters, concern in the number of EU residents.
According to the agency, some of the Russian residents have already encountered restrictions and difficulties in managing bank accounts in Spain.
So, for example, one of the banks put to surveillance eight thousand Russians living in the country. The issuance of new loans to citizens of the Russian Federation who are not residents of Spain have been frozen.

According to the picker, the negotiation process "very complex and viscous." "There are fundamental contradictions. But, of course, there is a place for a compromise, "he said.

Supplies of all drugs that are not vital are discontinued. All sales profit will be sent to charitable organizations.
In addition, Eli Lilly stops all investments, advertising campaigns and new clinical studies in Russia.
Earlier, Pfizer and Bayer reported on the termination of investments, but they did not stop the imports of drugs into Russia.
Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Irina Veremuk reported that for today, 20 thousand people were evacuated from Mariupol on the Humanitarian Corrorder.
Evacuation took place on a humanitarian corridor on private cars. Of the 4000 cars who left the city, 570 already arrived in Zaporizhia. Also today partially managed to organize evacuation from the Sumy and Kharkov regions.

Speech is held in Istanbul.
All profits from concerts will be transferred to a charitable non-governmental Polish organization, helping children of Ukrainian refugees.
Biden signed a law on the allocation of assistance to Ukraine in the amount of $ 13.6 billion.
The results of the day according to the State Agency RIA Novosti.


Among them, in particular, TV presenter Artem Sheinin, Publicist Armen Gasparyan, head of Rosoboronexport Alexander Mikheev.
Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, Russian users began problems with access to government sites and online clients of banks. Browsers began to marry these sites like unsafe and reset the connection. The reason is a review of digital security certificates, without them browsers do not trust sites and "protect" from them from them. Story
